README.md, before:

# CAVE Query Scripts for H01

## Notebooks

In the notebooks folder, there are several working scripts to interact with caveclient.
If you are the first time using the caveclient, please start with [CAVEsetup](https://github.com/VCG/cave-scripts/blob/master/notebooks/CAVEsetup.ipynb).

## Data

### Examples

`example_data.h5` and `dash_example_data.h5` are from [NeuroglancerAnnotationUI](https://github.com/seung-lab/NeuroglancerAnnotationUI/tree/master/examples).

### Nucleus

`h01_cell_body_nucleus_matrix_may16_2023.csv` is an original table that contains nucleus id, volume, position and bounding box's position. Daniel Berger compiled on May 16, 2023.

`h01_nucleus_table_data.h5` is a table ingested into CAVE.

About Columns:

- id: ID in the VAST segmentation file (for neurons/glia this should be consistent with the 'dbid' value in other tables)
- volume: volume estimate of cell body or nucleus in cubic micrometers, at _very low resolution_ (mip6 every 128th section for neurons/glia, mip7 every 16th section for bv nuclei, manually painted)
- pt_position: X,Y,Z anchor point within cell body or nucleus, in pixels at 8x8x33 nm
- bb_start_position: Xmin,Ymin,Zmin of bounding box of cell body or nucleus, in pixels at 8x8x33 nm
- bb_end_position: Xmax,Ymax,Zmax of bounding box of cell body or nucleus, in pixels at 8x8x33 nm

### Annotations

`dbcells-dump.csv` contains annotations previously done for H01. 

`dbcells_dump_table_data.h5` is a table ingested into CAVE.

About Columns:

- pt_position: X,Y,Z anchor point within cell body or nucleus, in pixels at 8x8x33 nm
- classification_system: comma-seperated string joined from 'dbsubcelltype', 'dbsubcelltype2', and 'dbsubcelltype3'
- cell_type: cell type (manually classified)
  - 0: [U] unknown
  - 1: [P] pyramidal
  - 2: [I] interneuron
  - 3: [N] unclassified neuron
  - 4: [A] astrocyte
  - 5: [O] oligodendrocyte
  - 6: [G] mg/opc
  - 7: [C] 'c-shaped' cell (also mg/opc)
  - 8: [B] blood vessel cell (does not occur in this list)
  - 9: [S] Spiny stellate
  - 10: [E] Excitatory/spiny with atypical tree\n% Evelinas blood vessel nucleus types are
  - 11: 'Pericytes'
  - 12: 'vSMC'
  - 13: 'fibroblast'
  - 14: 'perivascular lymphocytes'
  - 15: 'perivascular macrophages'
  - 16: 'undecided' (unspecified blood vessel cell)
  - 17: 'Endothelial cells'
  - 18: 'circulating imm'

Commit message:

adding setup instructions to readme

README.md, after:

# CAVE Query Scripts for H01

## Setup
Setup a virtual environment using [virtualenv](https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/latest/).
``` bash
virtualenv -p python3.9 venv
source venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Notebooks

In the notebooks folder, there are several working scripts to interact with CaveClient.
If you are the first time using the CaveClient, please start with [CAVEsetup](https://github.com/VCG/cave-scripts/blob/master/notebooks/CAVEsetup.ipynb).

## Data

### Examples

`example_data.h5` and `dash_example_data.h5` are from [NeuroglancerAnnotationUI](https://github.com/seung-lab/NeuroglancerAnnotationUI/tree/master/examples).

### Nucleus

`h01_cell_body_nucleus_matrix_may16_2023.csv` is an original table that contains nucleus id, volume, position and bounding box's position. Daniel Berger compiled on May 16, 2023.

`h01_nucleus_table_data.h5` is a table ingested into CAVE.

About Columns:

- id: ID in the VAST segmentation file (for neurons/glia this should be consistent with the 'dbid' value in other tables)
- volume: volume estimate of cell body or nucleus in cubic micrometers, at _very low resolution_ (mip6 every 128th section for neurons/glia, mip7 every 16th section for bv nuclei, manually painted)
- pt_position: X,Y,Z anchor point within cell body or nucleus, in pixels at 8x8x33 nm
- bb_start_position: Xmin,Ymin,Zmin of bounding box of cell body or nucleus, in pixels at 8x8x33 nm
- bb_end_position: Xmax,Ymax,Zmax of bounding box of cell body or nucleus, in pixels at 8x8x33 nm

### Annotations

`dbcells-dump.csv` contains annotations previously done for H01. 

`dbcells_dump_table_data.h5` is a table ingested into CAVE.

About Columns:

- pt_position: X,Y,Z anchor point within cell body or nucleus, in pixels at 8x8x33 nm
- classification_system: comma-seperated string joined from 'dbsubcelltype', 'dbsubcelltype2', and 'dbsubcelltype3'
- cell_type: cell type (manually classified)
  - 0: [U] unknown
  - 1: [P] pyramidal
  - 2: [I] interneuron
  - 3: [N] unclassified neuron
  - 4: [A] astrocyte
  - 5: [O] oligodendrocyte
  - 6: [G] mg/opc
  - 7: [C] 'c-shaped' cell (also mg/opc)
  - 8: [B] blood vessel cell (does not occur in this list)
  - 9: [S] Spiny stellate
  - 10: [E] Excitatory/spiny with atypical tree\n% Evelinas blood vessel nucleus types are
  - 11: 'Pericytes'
  - 12: 'vSMC'
  - 13: 'fibroblast'
  - 14: 'perivascular lymphocytes'
  - 15: 'perivascular macrophages'
  - 16: 'undecided' (unspecified blood vessel cell)
  - 17: 'Endothelial cells'
  - 18: 'circulating imm'
